
Senior Software Engineer Interview
----------------------------------
What’s been your most challenging project or technology in the last two years?  

What are you most proud of on your resume?  

Explain the gap in your resume.  

why walmart? why merchandising?  


UI:
(whiteboard)About building a form and submit via http request  

(whiteboard) Explain promise, event loop, seTimeout()...etc  

(whiteboard) About big O, binary search, and a function which add two string together


A/B testing (bucket tests or split-run testing
SQL on Windows functions majorly, Basic business case studies, AB testing case studies.
In AB test questions, you are asked to design KPI for a product rollout, like their success metrics and operational metrics. 


There was test case that was failing for wrong reason make it fail for the right reason and then make it pass. (RGG)  


Explain solution to the programming assignment they gave a few days ago  

Here is a screenshot of a walmart product, tell me what you would improve about it.  



Design system to stream stock prices on multiple devices (mobile, tab, PC etc)  


What would be criteria to select database?  

What is throughput? What are numbers like?



Name a time when you went "above and beyond" on a task  

Name a time when you had to work with a difficult person on a team and how did you handle it?  

JavaScript fundamental questions  

Behavioural, case study, technical SQL and model building assessment, take home test, not in that order.  

Binary Search, Linear Search and matrix problem  

Runtime for searching in trees? 

linked lists, hashtable, stack, system design

Questions on designing. Core knowledge test on understanding java and databases. 

finding the row with the max value within a filtered group, and the group had to be composed of multiple tables.  

Implements Queue using stack
Count Inversions in an array  

Design online, multi-tenant payment system
BTree, recursive problem
Java fundamentals  

During Phone screen 1. I was asked about converting string into CamelCase.
Onsite interview. 1.How does HTTP and HTTPS work? 
2. What is a man in middle attack? 
3. how do you know at server level if the request is coming for mobile or for server? 
4. Explain akamai logic if you know of anything. 
5. flatten the given array (except Object of key and value pair should be pushed as it is) 
6. design question on Canvas. 
7. explai SEO strategy 
8. What have you done to improve performance. 
8. what backend languages are you comfortable with. 
9 can you write palindrome program in PHP (Since I said PHP is a language i have worked on in past) 
10. what is a difference in method and function. 
11. calculate the amount of water be help between any 2 rows and sum it up.  

Questions were focused on algorithms, data structures, big data technologies, high-level design and lots of deep dive technical questions around previous projects.  
Describe a difficult customer situation and what did you do to resolve the issue  


How many sub-spaces can 4 lines divide in 2D? How many sub-spaces can 4 hyperplanes divide in 3D?  

How to divide n numbers into k clusters to minimize the sum of in-group errors?  

What would you do when an engineer really doesn't agree with your design?  


You have 2 not sorted integer Lists. Write a code to merge them with unique integers in sorted order.
For example 1, 4, 3 and 2, 4, 5 result will be 1, 2, 3, 4, 5  

Sparse matrix traversal  

Interviewer asked me to write code to find the maximum continuous sum in a set of integers in an input array.

i/p: {-2,5,-1,4,-3} ; output is 8 with 5,-1,4  

- what are jax-WS, Jax-RS services
-what is sonar code anaylaser
-multhreading scenario in web services and application server tomcat
-Implement multi-threading
-linked list reverse, find mid of linked list, string reverse recursively
-Hashmaps and internal working, hashcode
-data structures, trees, complexities of algorithms and asked to reduce the complexities
-Spring MVC, Dependancy Injection. Was asked to explain it with the help of a use case scenario
-Asked about hibernate, persistence layer  

Dedup a given string.  

Give me all the permutations of valid palindrome in a string?

I strongly believe this is highly flawed question at least from example expected output. I hope some one can prove me wrong.

it is a combination of 3 different problems
   1. get all possible subsets of a string
   2. check those subsets for possibility of a palindrome
   3. get permutations of valid palindromes

I highly doubt that this can be solved in a span of… 
Show More
Find count of set bits in a 32 bit buffer

Easy if you know bitwise operations but last time I encountered bitwise was 10 years back in school.  


Parse web log with regular expression  

Internship interview, with one phone call, a couple interactions with HR/Recruiting, and a day of on site interviews. Asked great questions, got to know the product and potential project, and the office is simply amazing!

What is the difference between '==' & '===' in javascript.  

Clone a object in javascript.  

Explain async operation.On a click of a button initiates two XHR request. How would you provide a status updated when two XHR request has been completed.  

Basic Algorithms  


Non Technical:
----------------
Build dynamic pricing for Walmart.com.  
 
Explain how the test numbers are created on their internal tool?  

Why product management?  

How would retail industry be 5 years from now ?  

How do you deliver bad news to your team ?  

How do you deliver bad news to your team ?  

If one of the steps you take is in line with customer needs but not in line with your goals how would you handle it ?  

Think of metrics that would be important for your customers  

What is one thing about you that I can't get from your resume?  

Challenging analytical problem which make you think a lot Cases on Supply chain

Tell me a time you went above and beyond? Tell me a time when you took a positive risk?

evaluate this case study  

Why eCommerce?  

Why do you want to work at Walmart?  

Tell me about a time you took a risk.  

What would you do to improve our eCommerce site?  

What is a time you undertook a leadership role?  

What is a time you overcame a challenge in a group setting?  

Why are you interested in eCommerce?  

Lots of "tell me about a time..." questions and standard behavioral questions.  

What was your greatest accomplishment in your last role?  

Tell me a time you brought a new idea to your company.  

Tell me a time where you had to think outside the box.  

Tell me a time you brought an idea no one agreed on.  

Tell me about a team project when you had to work with someone difficult.  

what feature of Walmart does it attract you here?  

What makes you an entrepreneur?  

Defend your reasons for taking that specific approach at your internship.  

You are the CEO at Walmart E-commerce. What should Walmart do to increase sales?

Respecting the NDA. But easy to answer if you have InterviewPreparationd enough.  

Taking a look at our search feature, what would you propose we improve and build?

A lot of questions on questions probing my thoughts on how I would solve various problem related to retail e-commerce/omni-channel space.  

Imagine you come in one morning and sales have tanked for a specific category. What action would you take and what metrics would you use to break down the problem? (They must really like this question because 3 out of 6 interviewers asked it.)  

Some SQL. They did not ask any specific questions, just asked past experience.  

why walmart?

How will you manage low performing employees?  

OTB experience?  

Was supposed to use collabedit for coding tests I assume.  

First asked about projects and internships. Then asked about JavaScript knowledge, design two classes, one inherits another; what is closure.
a simple print question. eg. given [1,2,3] print [1-1] [1-2] [1-3] [2-2] [2-3] [3-3]  



How do you deal with difficult people? Explain a time you failed and what you took from it? Tell me about a success in your career. What is the probability of rolling a 10, 11 or 12 with two standard 6 sided die? Probability of being dealt a pair of cards from a standard 52 card deck?  







